
## Restaurant List Scraping

Similar to the main scraping, we used the tor network to obfuscate our routing to not get detected by google maps. Contrary to the main scraping of reviews, for us it was not necessary to automate the scraping task, since we only needed to aquire a list of restaurants once for our proof-of-concept approach.


The script for scraping the restaurant list accesses the google maps website, searches for "Restaurant Bochum" end returns a list of all entries in the "Results" list from google maps. The scraper scrolls through the "Results" list and saves the entries that it has not seen yet. The scraper either returns a given number of entries or all of the results for the search, depending on if the list ends before the number of queried results is reached. To detect if the end of the list has been reached, the scraper checks for the text "You have reached the end of the" in the website, which appears, when the end of the list has been reached. In experiments the word "list" was sometimes not displayed properly so the check ommits this word and only checks for the indicated phrase.


In order to compensate for slow traffic through the tor network, the scraper uses delays during its search to provide enough loading time. This loading time is given generously, since the runtime for the scraper does not need to be short. Another benefit of longer sleep-times is, that the detection by google maps for automated scraping is made harder. During the creation of the restaurant list, the scraper was not stopped once by google maps, which means that the scraping went unnoticed for this comparatively small task.

The list of results, for our project the list of restaurants, is written to a csv file and stored in the github repository. The list contains the name and address of the restaurants, which are obtained by extracting them from the restaurant information provided by google maps. During the extraction an information string is returned by the google maps query, which is split up at words that occur at the same place in order to obtain the information from the predictable structure.  
For some restaurants the field for the address is left empty. To address this, the scraper adds the string "Bochum" to every address of the restaurant list. This can be done, because a very limited area - Bochum - is being queried. The string "Bochum" is added to prevent the results showing multiple restaurants with ambiguous naming from different locations other than Bochum.  
If restaurants from other areas were to be used, then this would not be possible, as it would indicate a wrong location. For that case it might be beneficial to leave the address field empty, and/or to delete the specific entry from the restaurant list. Further experiments in order to determine the number of restaurants this would affect on average have not been done, since it is not a concern for this project and thus out of scope. 


The resulting list of restaurants gives the basis for the scraping of reviews, used in this projects main scraping program. As hinted before, this scraping can be slightly adjusted in order to retrieve more results. The scraper is also not restriced for the search of restaurants, as it is possible to enter any query string into the google maps search bar. Thus a user could adapt the provided script to their personal needs. At this point we indicate that the scraper is not intended for unethical use cases or unfair scraping towards google maps. To keep fairness and not to overload the google maps servers the sleep timers should be kept.
